---
layout: post
title: "Intro to Java and Tips"
date: 2022-01-19
categories: learn
---

Some very basic Java tips I learnt from GitHub's Learn Lab Java Course. And Hello World!

# Intro to Java

> I still have little knowledge on Java, but I'm willing to go further!

***

## Table of Contents
  - [Verifying installation](#verifying-installation)
  - [Java class](#java-class)
  - [Java main method](#java-main-method)
  - [Hello World](#hello-world)
  - [Compiling](#compiling)
  - [Tips](#tips)

***

Here I'm using *vscode* with the following extensions - maybe they may be automatically installed when creating a java file to work on, so don't worry! Use this only to consult with something is going wrong:

- Debugger for Java
- Extension Pack for Java
- Language Support for Java(TM) by Red Hat
- Maven for Java
- Project Manager for Java
- Test Runner for Java

## Verifying installation

To properly run, Java must be installed. Verify on the terminal with:

```
java -version
javac -version
```

Both must return the installed version. If not, check the installation on 
[Java website](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk12-downloads-5295953.html).

***

## Java class

`public class hello_world` is an example of class that you can create first in the blank java project.

```
    public class hello_world {

    }
```

And then we can create the first method as follow.

***
## Java main method

`public static void main(String[] args)` is the main Java method.

- public: Is the access modifier of the main method
- static: In order to JVM load the class into the memory and call the main method, it has to be static
- void: We don't want to return nothing on this main method, so the return type is void
- main: Is the name of java main method, and where a java program will look when executed
- String[] args: Is the called 'java command line arguments', meaning that the main method accepts a single argument of type String array.

Now we have the following

```
    public class hello_world {
        public static void main(String[] args) {

        }
    }
```

***

## Hello World

Now that we have some Java basic structure, let's add a print function with `System.out.println`

```
    public class hello_world {
        public static void main(String[] args) {
            System.out.println("Hello, World!");
        }
    }
```

***

## Compiling

To run a java program we firt need to compile with the command `javac`, that will create the executable java program.

So just run first in the `file.java`, and then run the compiled file that will be only `file` with java:

```
javac file.java
java file
```

***

## Tips

### Comparing strings

Comparison elements like `==` and `!=` work on the indentity of objects. Having two different strings actually they will be different objects, even if are two equal words.

To do so, use 
- `"string".equals(variable)` (same of `variable == "string"` logic) or 
- `!"string".equals(variable)` (same of `variable != "string"` logic).

***